# `SC ROBOTICS 2022-23`

The SC Robotics team is composed of 25 members. Collectively, the team contributes several years of experience in mechanical design, rapid prototyping, software engineering, embedded programming, and biological sciences. The team is organized in the following leadership scheme following the core systems of the rover. Below is a summary of lead-related backgrounds.

### Team Structure

- **Team Lead:** `Jacob Feingold`, _Mechanical Engineering - Solidworks, MATLAB, Java_
- **Mechanical Lead:** `Liam Kerrigan`, _Aerospace Engineering - Solidworks, MATLAB, C++_
- **Programming Lead:** `Jasper Doan`, _Computer and Data Science - C, C++, C#, Python, Git_
- **Science Lead:** `Laura Johann` / `Renee Le`, _Physics and Planetary Science - Solidworks, Python, IDL_
- **Business Lead:** `Andrew George`, _Physics - Microsoft Office, Google Workspace, Finance & Project Management_

### Recruitment and Educational Outreach Plan

The team has recruited members since June via classroom outreach, social media platforms, and campus club events. The team promotes the project to students via flyers, campus newsletters, and a team website. Educational outreach plans include demonstrations and presentations hosted by SC Robotics in conjunction with the college’s Physics and Astronomy Club.

---

## `Team Resources`

### Facility Resources

Fabrication space and machinery has been provided by `Saddleback College`. Team members have access to a CNC mill, lathe, waterjet, and multiple 3D printers. Design software licenses have been provided by Solidworks, giving program access on personal devices to 25 students. Manufacturing software licenses have been provided by MasterCam, giving program access to 5 students.

---

## `Project Management Plan`

The team is divided into seven subsystems to promote interdisciplinary collaboration and facilitate systems engineering and integration at earlier stages of design. In-person general and subteam meetings occur weekly. Main communications are accomplished through email and Discord. Deadlines and task completion is tracked using an online Gantt chart software. The team uses Google Drive for document storage and GrabCAD for mechanical design files management. Currently, all designs have been completed and purchase orders are being finalized. The chassis is on track to be assembled in early December. Tasks in progress include manufacturing components, completing tests of the science package, continuing development of the autonomy system, and ongoing testing and optimization of the telecommunications system. Integration is set to occur in late January. Initial formal testing will consist of individual subsystem evaluation, then integrated testing will include simulating challenging mission environments and tasks. The rover’s performance will be evaluated for key metrics, such as operation completion efficiency and the onboard power consumption during missions. Our budgeted testing period includes additional time to account for issues that may be uncovered in the field.

---

## `Preliminary Technical Design`

### Chassis, Drivetrain, and Arm Subsystems

The chassis is composed of welded 6063 aluminum tubing, offering a sturdy construction. The control arm suspension is constructed with 6061 aluminum and utilizes air shocks. The drivetrain consists of four wheels powered by Rev Robotics NEO brushless DC motors connected to 80:1 gearboxes, capable of 208 Nm of torque. The wheels are printed airless 15 inch tires that have been engineered to absorb bumpiness over rocks and maintain stability. For motor control, we are using dual-motor controllers capable of up to 120 amps of continuous current. The drivetrain will be powered by three lithium-ion polymer batteries, chosen for their high energy density and discharge capabilities. Our six degree-of-freedom arm utilizes frameless motors at each axis combined with a turret, two strain wave drives, and three custom cycloidal drives to achieve high torque density and zero backdrivability. Carbon fiber tubes join the individual servo packages to form the arm. The frameless motors run on 48 volts for greater power density, enabling the arm to succeed with heavy lifting tasks. Our simple and robust end effector design is actuated via a lead-screw system driven by a dual-output DC motor and is constructed of aluminum plating and 3D printed fingers. The rotation of the lead screw doubles as a rotational mechanism for screwing, and the finger houses a linear actuator for linear applications.

### Communications and Command & Control

Communication between the rover and the base station will be established primarily via a 2.4GHz, and 5GHz Ubiquiti Networks radio link creating a continuous ethernet bridge between the two network segments. The rover uses an omnidirectional antenna while the base station utilizes a sector antenna for better reception. Protocol-layer communications is provided via the ROS2 communication stack, utilizing a combination of Topics and Actions to communicate commands and exchange sensor data between the various Raspberry Pis, an Nvidia AGX Orin, and the base station. Autonomy and pathfinding is achieved using a fusion of depth-sensing cameras for object detection and stereo-visual odometry, an IMU to correct for drift, and a GPS for course guidance. All of this sensor data is fed into existing components of the ROS2 Navigation stack, including Moveit2, ros2_control, VSLAM, and Ros2 Navigation2. Manual operations include a PS4 gamepad for drivetrain control and a kinematic model arm for arm manipulation.
